---
layout: default
img: ipad.png
category: Project Details
title: Problem Statement / Partner’s Needs + Challenges
description: |
---
As it stands, Food for Lives relies on a variety of different social media platforms (Facebook, Instagram, Slack, Clubhouse), several messaging services (e-mail, phone texting, instant messaging), and the company website to communicate the current needs of the organization to the public and to coordinate events with volunteers. This complicated and cumbersome system of communication has become somewhat of a logistical nightmare that stifles the ability of Food for Lives to maintain and grow the pool of volunteers. Most notably, the current system makes it difficult to provide volunteers with on demand information regarding the location and specific details of individual volunteer events. This predicament is exacerbated by the fact that the personnel at Food for Lives lack the technical expertise to make regular updates to their company website; The site was developed by a third party. Furthermore, Food for Lives has expressed their dismay with their inability to share a visual presentation of individual volunteer events that is easily accessible to volunteers and donors: Many volunteers prepare thousands of meals offsite yet have been unable to observe a single instance of their contributions in action. Therefore, our partner organization has communicated their need for a unified communication platform that can be updated regularly with pertinent information regarding the organization and specific volunteer events. Additionally, the organization needs a medium that would allow volunteers to easily communicate with each other during the course of volunteer events. Overall, the process that we will be automating is volunteer management.